# A-Machine-Learning-Approach-To-Detect-Covid-19-Fake-Tweets
### Abstract
False information about COVID-19 has been spreading even quicker than the truth during the Covid-19 epidemic, a time when accurate information is essential for the public's health and safety. The scientific community has made significant efforts to address this issue because of the detrimental effects these news stories have on several fields. I want to contribute to the fight against the Covid-19 infodemic in this research by developing a probabilistic machine learning model for detecting fake information (tweets) that circulates on social media. This is why two datasets of tweets from Twitter were combined and compiled from numerous social media accounts taken into account. In this research, a tweet pre-processing pipeline designed for this particular categorization is shown. BOW and TF-IDF representations are used to extract numerical feature vectors from categorical input. K fold cross validation is used to train and assess the Multinomial Naïve Bayes classifier. The final outcomes are then predicted using an additional testing dataset. On the test set, the model achieves a 78.7 % accuracy rate and an F1-score of 78.4 %. Given the relative simplicity of the model, this is a respectable outcome in compared to the baseline techniques employed for this dataset.

### Dataset
To develop a classification model for COVID-19 news (tweets), using the simple but effective Multinomial Naïve Bayes Algorithm I have combined three datasets. The first dataset “Coronavirus tweets NLP - Text Classification” is extracted from Kaggle [1], the second dataset extracted from Constraint@AAAI2021 workshop [2], and the third one “CoAID” [3].
This dataset is made up of tweets from extracted from Twitter and represent actual or fraudulent news on the COVID-19 pandemic. The dataset includes information about each tweet's id, which is not essential to our classification, as well as two categorical values: the tweet's text and the class that it belongs to. The two class labels for this binary classification problem are fake and real, as was previously indicated. 35,024 tweet samples make up the dataset. There are no missing values to contend with because it is personally curated from the respective writers. 

[1] Aman Miglani, “Coronavirus tweets NLP - Text Classification” dataset,  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/datatattle/covid-19-nlp-text-classification?resource=download (lastly visited on 30 May 2022).

[2] P. Patwa et al., “Fighting an Infodemic: COVID-19 Fake News Dataset,” arXiv:2011.03327 [cs.CL], Nov 2020.

[3] L. Cui και D. Lee, ‘CoAID: COVID-19 Healthcare Misinformation Dataset’, arXiv [cs.SI]. 2020.
